[SWISH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>RODERICK MARTIN: It all
happened in about a minute.
I was like, wow.
>>GEORGE NOORY: At
12, you understood
what you were looking at?
>>MARTIN: I knew
it was not normal.
If an African American
person would have seen a UFO,
he's not going to walk into
the local police station.
This is not something
you're just going to make up
and wake up in the
morning and say, not
only were we an
interracial couple,
but let's bring something
else into the mix.
Oh, we were abducted.
I sat back and I said, you've
got to be the good husband.
This is mentally
affecting your wife.
>>NOORY: Oh, wow.
It gets in your
blood, doesn't it?
>>MARTIN: It's a
rabbit hole that we
can't get to the bottom.
>>NOORY: What would
be one of the greatest
stories from a witness
you've ever heard?
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Roderick Martin with us.
He's a Mutual UFO Network
Texas field investigator.
Now he also hosts a podcast
and a YouTube channel
called "Why the Big Secret?"
Roderick, welcome
to the program.
>>MARTIN: Glad to
be here, George.
>>NOORY: And why the big secret?
>>MARTIN: Because there is
a secret, plain and simple.
>>NOORY: What's the secret?
>>MARTIN: We don't know.
But I think if we start
asking the question why,
we get past the narrative
that's put out there, right?
Because I think everybody knows
what most of the secrets are,
but we really don't know
why it's a big secret.
>>NOORY: We all are
interested in UFOs.
We're just baffled
by what happens.
How'd you get interested?
>>MARTIN: Well, it all started
when I was 12 years old.
Well, probably before that.
But when I was 12
years old in Dallas,
one evening I was about
to come into the house
because that's when my mom
flicks the porch light.
That's the signal.
>>NOORY: Like, get in, Rod.
>>MARTIN: Get in.
And everybody's in
the corner over there.
And so I was lagging
that night, that evening.
So it's right when
the stars was just--
you know how it meets
and you just kind of see
the stars a little bit?
And I just looked
up, and there it was.
It was a white object,
just like a disk.
Well, I can't say it was
a disk, but it was white.
And behind it was two
jets following it.
And then it came back
and then they came back.
And it went back.
It all happened within
about a minute, you know?
But I was like, wow.
>>NOORY: At 12, you understood
what you were looking at?
>>MARTIN: I knew
it was not normal.
And I've watched enough TV
to know that, what was that?
But I didn't realize the
significance of that moment.
But as the months
and years rolled by--
and it was always
seared in my head
because I never told anyone.
I was from a neighborhood you're
not going to talk about UFOs,
so that's not happening.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: How did this
evolve for you then at 12?
Did you keep going with it, or
did you stop for a few years?
>>MARTIN: No, it stayed
my secret, you know?
And like I said, the
neighborhood that I grew up in,
you could have been
the neighborhood bully.
And you're not going to say,
well, I saw a UFO last night.
Your street credit is gone.
So it stayed there.
But then "Close Encounters
of the Third Kind."
Then you have "ET phone home."
And all of that just
brought it in that,
yeah, where did ET come from?
>>NOORY: People got
interested in this.
>>MARTIN: Yes.
And so I would always
read the magazines
when I'd go to the
store, UFO magazines that
were out at that time.
In fact, I have a
collection of them now.
And so I would read those
stories, comic books that
had the UFO stories in them.
But over time I began
to say, wait a minute.
This is probably a real deal.
>>NOORY: I love that.
Now how did you migrate to
MUFON, the Mutual UFO Network?
>>MARTIN: Well,
MUFON, I was watching
"Hangar 1," which was one
of their feature things.
And I used to always see the
MUFON things on the shirt.
I was like, that's cool.
There's somebody out there
that investigates UFOs.
Now this was besides
"Coast to Coast"
and listen to Art Bell
and all of that stuff,
but there's actual
people doing this.
And so at this time
I was on Facebook
or something, social media.
And they have these
tracking things
because I went to their site,
and I became a member before I
became a UFO investigator,
because you can
get a membership to the site.
>>NOORY: Anybody could?
>>MARTIN: Yeah,
anybody could, so you
can access some of the data.
And so I was always
a fan, so I always
contributed to their cause.
But then there was still
this thing in my home
where I really just didn't
talk about it enough.
But MUFON became an outlet.
But then all of a sudden,
I said, you know what?
I'm going to become
an investigator.
>>NOORY: And what was it like,
investigating UFOs and talking
to witnesses?
>>MARTIN: Well, I think
for me, again, I always
knew that they were real to me.
>>NOORY: Yes.
No doubts?
Never had doubts?
>>MARTIN: No, I
haven't had doubts, no.
And I think a lot
has changed now.
But for me to
start investigating
what some of the witnesses--
and the challenges
that you have to
really understand
the witness themselves,
because before you
can go any further
than that, you
have to ask those
hard questions,
and it's kind of humorous to me.
But you know, hey, were you
drinking that night, you know?
And the witnesses tell
you, I had a little bit.
Now most people could
stop right there--
>>NOORY: And walk away.
>>MARTIN: But I say, what is a
little bit to you versus what
I think is a little bit?
Because I don't drink at all.
And you find out
maybe it was a keg.
Now you have to think, oh, well,
I normally drink three kegs.
And so you have to then
trust the witnesses
all across the board.
So that's where it
starts, and that's
what I like the most
with MUFON because you
meet some great people.
There is some great witnesses.
There are some people
that really, really
have some good
background that you will
believe what they're saying.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: How do you
get the witnesses?
Does MUFON dig them up for you?
>>MARTIN: No-- yeah.
MUFON has a CMS system.
And then of course, everything
goes through the hierarchy
from--
through our state
director to the person
who handles us regionally.
Cases have been assigned to us
at that point, at that level.
And once they're
assigned to us, we
have a few days to go into
there, depending on the code,
to contact the
witnesses themselves.
And then of course, open up
the case and then make contact.
>>NOORY: Is it based on region?
So these people you interview
are in the Dallas area?
>>MARTIN: They'll be more
in the Texas South area.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>MARTIN: So yes, it's all based
upon region because now I think
they may--
and I may just be saying this.
I don't know if
they're now are going
to change some of the
parameters because now we can do
a lot of stuff more virtually.
But back then--
>>NOORY: You could
do Zoom calls.
>>MARTIN: You can do Zoom
because now they bridge it out,
because if you're going to
go out to the witnesses.
But since COVID had happened,
that all just shut down.
>>NOORY: And do you
come back with a report?
Do you have to
finalize some report
on the person you interviewed?
>>MARTIN: Yes.
In the CMS, we'll go
through a Form 30,
and that's going to be
the finalization of us
doing our report.
Now the witness don't see
this, but it is examined.
>>NOORY: And you file it.
>>MARTIN: Yeah, when we
file it our state directors
and everyone else
has access to it.
And if there is
any discrepancies,
they will reach out, or if
we need any more assistance
because there are times
that there are things
that I probably see that
I really don't know what
I'm looking at, but there
are more experienced people
that do.
So I will reach out and
then they can assist us.
But at the end of the
day, we seal it off,
close their case out.
Then at that point,
it's archived.
>>NOORY: And your
recommendations or your reports
generally are favorable
to the witness or not?
>>MARTIN: Well, it depends
on the investigator.
For me, I think you just--
I just state the facts.
And you try not to--
>>NOORY: Be too opinionated?
>>MARTIN: Yeah, because
at this point that's--
even though I'm a
believer and you
tend to want-- every time a case
is assigned, you want to know,
this is the one.
>>NOORY: You want it to be real.
>>MARTIN: You want
it to be real.
But then you have
to-- like I say,
once you talk to
the witness and you
hear their side
of the story, you
go through the protocols
of information,
then you write the report.
But now we're going to
do a lot of other stuff.
I mean, we're going
to check metadata
on the pictures or the videos.
We're going to check the weather
report, because oftentimes
a witness said, oh, I saw it.
It was a clear day.
And you check the weather.
It was cloudy.
How could you seen
something up there?
But again, this is
not a conversation
we have with the witness.
They have no clue
that we are being
that objective because
all we are doing
is just gathering
information from them.
>>NOORY: Now you have, of
course, your own program
on YouTube.
You've developed the podcast
that we've talked about.
So you have evolved into your
own podcast, your own YouTube
channel.
Tell me a little bit about that.
>>MARTIN: Well,
basically again, you
want to get your message
out to the world,
especially being in
my community knowing
that it's interpreted a little
different or taboo almost.
So when I initially
started my podcast--
and the question for
me was curiosity,
because I go back to the basics,
George, when it comes down.
There's a high-level
conversation
when it comes to all of this.
But I'm finding
that there's still
millions and millions of
people who still have that one
question, and that
is, are UFOs real,
or are we alone in the universe?
>>NOORY: Are we alone?
>>MARTIN: Yeah.
And so that's when
I began to start
looking at all of the
secrets that we've heard.
And I was like, wait a minute.
Now of course, it's also
inspired by the movie
"Men in Black" when
Will Smith sat down
with Tommy Lee in that
scene when he says,
why the big secret?
And Tommy Lee, you
know, K, said, you know,
well, he says people
can handle it.
That's what Will Smith said.
But Tommy Lee says, no,
a person can handle it.
People are dumb, crazy,
and they're out of control.
And so at that point
it gave me some context
to think, why is
it a big secret?
So if you think about Roswell or
any of these, and I'm thinking,
OK, now over the years of
the past 50 or 60 years,
we hear what they found.
Yeah, OK.
There was a crash or the
possible alien bodies.
But what's the real secret?
You know, what
would it really be?
Such as, what if the
extraterrestrials told
us something about free energy?
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MARTIN: Wouldn't that
be the big secret, right?
>>NOORY: Exactly, because
they don't want that.
>>MARTIN: They don't
want that out there.
So instead of us focusing on the
narratives that is leaked out
or we think we've
found something great,
it's the strategy behind this.
We need to start
getting curious.
Think why is what
I tell my audience.
And that begins
the possibilities
of the curiosity questions.
And once we start
that, oh my god.
Then we get into a
whole nother level.
>>NOORY: Roderick, the amazing
documentary film producer
on UFOs, James Fox, was
on "Beyond Belief--"
>>MARTIN: OK.
>>NOORY: --and talked about
how he got into this field.
How'd you get involved in
this true obsession with UFOs?
>>JAMES FOX: I really
wanted to know the truth.
When a good friend of mine
started talking about Roswell--
this was in the
very early '90s--
I honestly felt that
he had lost his mind.
But he's a really good friend.
And then I was working
doing video production
in San Francisco.
I was doing PSAs, Public
Service Announcements.
And one of the guys that I
really respected on the job
site was like, oh, yeah.
Roswell really did
actually happen,
and he confirmed a
bunch of stuff for me.
And I thought, hmm.
So I started looking
into it, and here I
am all these years later, still
wanting to get to the truth.
And I feel like I'm getting
closer to the truth,
but the truth is more
elusive than I expected.
>>NOORY: Is it like one step
forward, two steps back?
>>FOX: One step
forward, 10 steps back.
>>NOORY: That much?
>>FOX: Well, yeah.
>>NOORY: That's frustrating.
>>FOX: Well, it is and it isn't.
I mean, I really feel like
I'm getting closer to knowing
what the government knows.
We know that the
government knows the real,
and they have for quite
some time, as early back
as the situation in '48.
But I'm beginning to believe--
and some people are
going to hate me
for saying this-- that it's
more a question of what
the government doesn't know
as opposed to what they know
is the reasons for secrecy.
Because you can't let the cat
out of the bag and not have--
it's going to open up a
floodgate of inquiries.
Could you imagine
admitting that they're real
and then not having
all the answers?
I mean, we don't really--
>>NOORY: Not being able
to back it up or tell us
if it's dangerous or not?
Are they taking us?
Are they eating us?
Who knows what?
But you're right.
I think people would panic.
Right.
Have you questioned
the nondisclosure
from government, why
they don't tell us?
>>MARTIN: Well, I mean,
saying what James has said.
For example, like I
was just alluding to,
we never saw a UFO
stop for gas, right?
So therefore, they're
using something different.
And just as his question
is to go deeper.
So with the
government disclosure,
I think, again, it's
all a narrative.
It is their way of
letting this thing--
and like you said, they may not
know everything, and maybe not.
But who's to--
I know what they're
not telling us,
and that's everything
that they know, right?
And so I think the disclosure
side of the government,
we probably will never know.
But at the end of the day,
times have changed, though.
Because if you go back
to the '40s and '50s,
there was a different network.
Now you have children of
those people are now senators.
They're curious.
And so I think in
another 10 or 15 years,
we'll probably
have a whole change
of government in
some of the powers
to get the questions answered.
>>NOORY: When you
talk to witnesses,
what seems to be the most
predominant answer that they
give you about these
UFOs that they see?
>>MARTIN: Well, I think
when I really dig into it,
George, we spent a lot of time
focusing as investigators,
researchers on the UFOs itself.
And I think it's
evolving for me is
to start trusting the witness
because now you're getting down
to what they say or their
stories, their emotion,
because you can't
really verify all of it.
But that's where I
get into where I now
have to know what
they're really looking
for is someone to believe them.
>>NOORY: What would
be one of the greatest
stories from a witness
you've ever heard?
>>MARTIN: Well, I think from the
greatest stories would be that
I ever heard--
now, with that being via MUFON,
which, outside of MUFON is I
will say one of the
greatest stories
was a hybrid story
of a person saying
how they have had
hybrid children
and how they have been
on a spacecraft, and just
the deepness of that, and really
how they really was giving me
a descriptive of their story.
>>NOORY: Did you believe them?
>>MARTIN: I had to, because--
and here's where I go with this,
and this is a powerful thing.
It's no more of believing
the story itself.
I have to believe you
believe, and that's
what gives me the power to
come with you on your journey.
>>NOORY: And do you
look for that on them?
>>MARTIN: Yes, you have to.
>>NOORY: Their
actions, their eyes?
>>MARTIN: Their eyes, the way
they tell the story, the way--
the emotions that
they put behind it,
because a lot of people are not
understanding the mental health
in this thing, and some
people carry a heavy burden
when it comes down
to this phenomenon.
And if you can see it and
feel it and come through it,
you have to believe what
they're saying to go with them.
So if you told me,
Roderick, behind that
dumpster there's a leprechaun,
and I can't see it.
I don't even see the rainbow.
But I do want the gold.
But at the end of the day,
I have to believe George.
And if George is
emotional enough,
then I must say,
George, you know what?
I believe you believe that
there's something behind that.
And for that, I'm going to
go with you on this journey.
>>NOORY: What do you
think the ETs are doing?
What's their goal here?
>>MARTIN: [LAUGHS] I think--
we hear so many stories, OK?
We hear the ancient civilization
stories back into now.
I think now the ETs, if
they had an agenda by now,
they are now displaying--
because you've got
two sides of this coin
where they're malevolent
or benevolent.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MARTIN: And I tend to lean
with the process of insurance.
I just want us to be safe
if something was to come up.
So the agenda of
them I don't think
has been known because that's
where the why the big secret
comes from.
But if we start
looking at the facts,
though, from cattle
mutilations to abductees
to all of these things
that's happening,
somebody is studying us.
That's for sure.
And for why we don't know, but
I'd rather be prepared for it.
>>NOORY: This agenda would
not be that bad, though,
or they would have done
something to us by now,
don't you think?
>>MARTIN: I don't
know about that.
I question that.
And I have an example for that.
We all have alarm
systems in our homes, OK?
We turn them on at night for
security for us and our family.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MARTIN: But if there
was something or someone
or something standing
across the street,
and every time you armed
that alarm it raised its hand
and it disarmed your alarm,
it's going to really take you
into a frenzy.
But yet, it hadn't
broken into the house.
It hadn't done anything.
It just kept letting you know--
>>NOORY: Yet.
>>MARTIN: Yet.
So that doesn't
allow me to sleep
at night to say just
because they haven't done
anything doesn't mean
the possibility--
but when they do display the
power through their technology,
through all of the things that
they do that we can't keep up
with, our military saying
how much of the air threat
it is, that let us know
there is something out there,
and the possibility's there,
and we should act accordingly.
>>NOORY: Let's get your
opinion on Chase Kloetzke,
a MUFON member
who was on my show
and talked about what she
thought was the agenda.
>>MARTIN: OK.
>>CHASE KLOETZKE: There's
information on all sides,
and we have to weigh everybody.
If they're a credible
witness and they're
coming to you with they're
all good or they're all bad,
and this is reproductive and
they're stealing our babies
and creating hybrids, I think
it's premature to jump in a box
too quickly.
And when you put it all
together, what again,
why couldn't it be a bunch
of different agendas?
I kind of look at
it as if say you
and I discovered intelligent
life on another planet.
And we come back,
and who would want
to be on that spaceship for
the next time we go out?
Who would want to be with us?
Virologists, biologists,
sociologists, scientists,
people--
>>NOORY: All kinds of people.
>>KLOETZKE: Absolutely.
And each one of them
with their own agenda,
which is the most important--
>>NOORY: To them.
>>KLOETZKE: Yes.
In the study of
this new species we
found, much like we do
in the jungles today
when we find a new bug.
So I wonder if
there just happens
to be that same
scenario that if they're
an advanced culture that has
all this intelligent technology,
there would be many
agendas and many reasons
to come at us the way they do.
However, there's no
evidence one way or another,
so we're still working.
>>NOORY: You think
she's spot on, Rod?
>>MARTIN: Yeah, I
think she's spot on.
And even myself just
finished a documentary,
and it was the military
encounters and stories
that had never been told.
>>NOORY: That's great.
>>MARTIN: And that also posed
a whole different perspective
on this because on one hand
you have people that say, OK.
They come in peace.
They've not done anything.
But then when you
see the coverup
of some of the
military encounters
and you think about that--
I mean, we have the most feared
military in the world, right?
We have some
advanced technology.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>MARTIN: But when you have some
of these pilots such as what
you saw in the TikTok videos
and how they was excited,
but then you hear the truth
that they were not excited,
they were scared or they had a
lot of feared sentiment, that
lets you know that there's
another side of this
that we need to be looking at.
And so as she's saying,
it's a lot of pieces,
and they all need
to come together.
And I think that's what
Congress is really trying to do
is get all of these agencies
to begin to report together.
>>NOORY: It's all
separate right now.
It's a hodgepodge.
>>MARTIN: Yeah, because
if you think about it,
you get a case that
something comes out
of the water in California.
Well, OK.
We've got-- the Coast
Guard may report it.
Then once it goes up a little
higher, the Navy is involved.
Now, it done hit the sky,
but it zoomed in seconds
over to another
part of the country.
The Air Force is involved.
OK, maybe it landed
and abducted somebody.
It's the army.
But all this is one encounter,
but we have all these agencies,
got different reports,
and they're not
communicating because
they're keeping it
all in their own
compartmentalized way.
And that's the problem.
We need all of them to work
as one, share the technology,
share the information, and then
hopefully we get some things
to the public, and it's just
not so much our government
working in separate capacities.
>>NOORY: When you
get reports, they
come from people of
all walks of life.
>>MARTIN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: And I
remember back when
I was 11 years old the
Barney and Betty Hill
case where we had an
African American married
to a Caucasian woman, which
was a no-no in those days.
That's how ridiculous
society was in those days.
But it was a huge story, and
it got pretty good coverage.
"Look" magazine
had a spread on it.
John Fuller wrote a story
called "The Interrupted
Journey" about them.
It was a big story.
Are we getting African
Americans and others
to come forward with
these kinds of stories,
or are they holding back?
>>MARTIN: I think they're there.
And I think the
holding back side of it
would be a little bit yes.
And it's going to be
societal for this.
Even then as you alluded back
to when the Betty and Barney
Hill story--
you're talking about
at a time that there
was a lot of
segregation and things.
So you can imagine
even back then
if an African American
person at that time frame
would have seen a
UFO, he's not going
to walk into the
local police station
because you had a
lot of issues there.
He's not going to go to
some of the organizations
and say, oh, by the
way, you're talking to--
>>NOORY: There are
extraterrestrials
and I see them.
>>MARTIN: Yeah.
Oh, yeah, I was out there
and something abducted me.
And so you're talking
a don't pass go,
don't click $200,
straight to jail.
You're going straight
to jail, you know?
So that's the ticket.
So imagine those stories.
But yet I think that we were
on the same military boats,
the bases, some of
the same stories.
We were there in presence.
And so there lies--
there's another thing.
And then it goes into some
religious aspects of it
as well in our community.
But I think the Betty
and Barney Hill really
was significant in
history because it
did have an interracial
couple, which
definitely the extraterrestrials
didn't mind, and probably had--
>>NOORY: And nobody
should have mind.
>>MARTIN: Right.
And nobody else
should have mind.
But at the end of
the day, I think
their story was authentic.
I think that it did open
the gap in the stories up.
And then you've got to
understand too, George.
Probably it was the best of
the best available at the time.
>>NOORY: It was a great story.
>>MARTIN: Yeah.
And so why wouldn't
somebody run with it?
Oh, OK.
We might have this African
American segment in it,
but wait a minute.
This is a great couple.
Both of them was
bona fide people.
And so therefore, let's look at
this from a witness standpoint.
>>NOORY: And to back up what you
said, when I was 21 years old
I'm a radio reporter
in Detroit, Michigan.
I interviewed Dr. Benjamin
Simon, their psychiatrist
who was in Boston.
Picked up the phone.
He answered.
Dr. Simon, I'm interested
in this UFO case.
I was obsessed
with these stories.
And I said, can I interview you?
He said, sure.
I wish I still had
the tapes with me.
>>MARTIN: Wow.
>>NOORY: And I
said specifically--
>>MARTIN: Well, you
archive yourself.
We can just get the questions.
Go ahead.
>>NOORY: Are Barney
and Betty Hill--
did they lie to you about
this incredible experience?
And he said, no.
I don't know what
happened to them.
I don't know if
they got abducted.
But they believe they did, and
they didn't lie about it to me.
And that was the great story.
>>MARTIN: And that's the
point, and that's how
I approach my witnesses today.
You have to take
out all of the noise
and begin to look at the
individual themselves.
And when you can do
that, you can then
begin to listen to their story
objectively and then maybe put
some emotion to it
from their perspective
and come up with some
suggestion that, you know what?
This might have
happened to these people
because look at this.
Look how it has disturbed them.
This is not something
you're just going to make up
and wake up in the
morning saying,
not only were we an
interracial couple,
but let's bring something
else into the mix.
Oh, we were abducted
and studied.
And so therefore, and
with that intelligence--
and I think Barney had a
high IQ and she worked with--
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
>>MARTIN: So that don't tell
you to go make some stuff up.
And then all of a
sudden, now you're
either going to be
ridiculed for years or--
now.
But then today, let's
take this in today,
I think there's vindication
with all this happening now.
We can now go back and say,
oh, that raised the probability
to 99.9%.
>>NOORY: I told you so.
>>MARTIN: I told you so, yes.
>>NOORY: You
brought up religion.
And religion and your
work in the ET field
had an effect on you personally.
>>MARTIN: Yes.
>>NOORY: Helped cause a divorce.
What happened?
>>MARTIN: Well, I think even
though I will say our issues
had issues--
but let's add that to the issue.
>>NOORY: This pushed it over--
>>MARTIN: It pushed it because
I was now going toward the fact
that I wanted to make
a career out of this,
and you've got to
have a conversation.
So you think about all the
people I've interviewed.
They're told their spouses
their most intimate secrets,
where the codes are, everything
except for an extraterrestrial
experience.
So I take my wife who
was a little younger,
about 15 years younger, and
her religious background
was pretty intact
in Christianity.
And here I am saying, OK, look.
I want to get into
ufology and become--
>>NOORY: Full time.
>>MARTIN: Full time.
>>MARTIN: And she
already thought
this was a cuckoo idea, OK?
In fact, it was to a point I
had three stepchildren, sons
in the house, and I
used to stay up at night
and try to watch the
"Ancient Aliens" because I
have to make sure I don't
watch this during the day.
And the channel was turned
off of it when she awakens.
Just didn't know.
And the boys were
not subject to that,
although they had interests too.
And I didn't understand as I do
now from a cultural lens what
was happening, and that's
really how everything
is based on our experiences.
So she grew up where the story
of Jesus Christ, in which I
was raised Christian as well.
>>NOORY: Sure.
You didn't deny that.
>>MARTIN: No, I
didn't deny that.
But the stories of it.
And for her, it's just, I don't
want you watching that stuff.
I don't want to hear
about this stuff.
So imagine being in a
relationship and some
of your most enthusiastic
things that you want to talk
to your partner
about you cannot.
And so you find refuge
in finding organizations
like MUFON.
That's what drove me
to MUFON, looking for--
>>NOORY: And you drifted
apart, didn't you?
>>MARTIN: We drifted apart.
And I remember distinctively
one of the days
that I had set forward-- it was
like three weeks in advance,
and I was like, I'm going
to my first MUFON meeting.
I'm going to meet some
people to talk about UFOs.
And I'm going to tell
you, I was like--
and I mean, I gave
her the whole plan.
>>NOORY: You were a kid in
a candy store, weren't you?
>>MARTIN: Yeah.
The two weeks notice,
the one-week notice,
the seven-day notice down to
the three days to the, baby,
tomorrow I'm going.
And just so happens we
was down to one car.
And I'll never
forget this moment.
It was on a Sunday, and she
went to church with her sister--
>>NOORY: In the car.
>>MARTIN: In the car, the only
car that we had at the time.
And I knew she was
going to-- she normally
would get back around noon.
And I was going to be a little
late, but you're talking late
to a meeting that I just--
that was enough for me.
I just needed to get there.
>>NOORY: You wanted
to get there.
>>MARTIN: Yes.
And so here she is.
The phone rings.
And I'm hearing something in
the background, some clinking.
They was out to eat.
And I was just floored.
And I said, where are you?
Well, I'm out to such and such.
So, OK.
That's fine.
I'm going to deal with this.
>>NOORY: They didn't
have Uber in those days.
>>MARTIN: No, they didn't.
Well, they did, but I just
wasn't really-- it wasn't--
I mean, I'm married.
This is my wife.
This is our car.
I don't need Uber.
I just need-- bring the car
home like we talked about.
And I asked her, why?
And she says, because I
don't want you fooling around
with that stuff and all of that.
>>NOORY: Oh, wow.
>>MARTIN: And I was so
depleted at the moment.
And I just said to myself, OK.
And here's what was
about to happen.
I sat back and I said, you've
got to be the good husband.
This is mentally
affecting your wife.
And so give it up.
Don't do this.
Take the high road.
Give up this pursuit because
this is in the house.
And so unfortunately, we
separated a few months later
because like I said, we already
had some issues, but this--
this was--
>>NOORY: Icing on the cake.
>>MARTIN: That was it.
It was that.
And so ultimately,
I was separated.
And when you separate,
you're liberated.
You're like, I'm going
to do all the things
I want to do because
you're thinking
your relationship's not
going to come back anyway.
And so I took the
exam for MUFON,
passed it, and then
later on went on
and started one of
the largest UFO clubs.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
>>MARTIN: Now do a weekly show.
I've got a podcast
that's in 59 countries.
>>NOORY: And you're happy.
>>MARTIN: And I'm happy.
You know, TV show.
But I'm also giving back
to the community of this.
And imagine had I not done that.
>>NOORY: You never would
have been satisfied.
>>MARTIN: Never-- it would have
been the most thing in life
that you would ever have
is look back on regret.
>>NOORY: The Bible
definitely shows some type
of extraterrestrial
presence, whether it's
fallen angels, Ezekiel's wheel.
There's something there.
On Gaia's "Deep
Space" program they
talked about the Bible and ETs.
>>WILLIAM HENRY: When
we're reading the Bible,
we always have to
look to the first page
to see, which version of
the Bible are you reading?
The New International version?
The new New
International version?
The King James version?
The Saint Jerome version?
Which version are you reading?
Because the language is
going to be different.
If we were to write, for
example, the ET version
of the Bible, we'd go back
to every story where it says,
and the heavens opened,
and realize they're
talking about a stargate.
What else could be the
heavens opening but a rip
in the fabric of space time?
And so this is a
way we can start
to connect with what the
ancients were actually
seeing or experiencing.
Their language was
different from ours.
They would say the
heavens opened.
We would say, oh,
a stargate opened.
It's as much a
function of language
that separates us from
true understanding
is it is anything else.
>>BILLY CARSON: There
are so many references
of extraterrestrial
contact in the Bible.
There are 70 verses
describing clouds
as vehicles, 15 verses
describing pillars,
10 verses describing
dwellings as vehicles,
160 verses describing
lights and fire as vehicles.
There's 17 verses
describing spinning wheels
and also 22 verses
describing dark
and shining objects as vehicles.
There's also 37 verses of
various objects in the Bible
that describe UFOs as flying
furnaces and burning bushes.
So as you can see, based
off of the vocabulary
of the people of
those times, they
can only use words that
would help them describe what
we would call nowadays UFOs.
>>REGINA MEREDITH: The Bible
begins with the Book of Genesis
and it ends with the
Book of Revelations.
In between are dozens of
stories that reference
what many scholars suggest may
be extraterrestrial phenomena.
>>NOORY: That's exciting.
>>MARTIN: It's very exciting.
And I think for me
in the Bible that
started my journey was the Book
of Genesis Chapter 1 Verse 26.
And it read, let's
make men in our image.
>>NOORY: Our image.
>>MARTIN: In the
likeness of ourselves.
Now I went to school,
so at some point
I was told that our was plural.
[LAUGHS] And so I was
like, what is this?
Wait a minute.
So it's not talking about
a singular god here.
This is a possibility of gods.
And that's also one
of the questions
I get all the time, George.
People are like, what
do the aliens look like?
What are they-- and I say,
well, what if we look like them.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>MARTIN: [LAUGHS] You know.
And that's the question.
And I think even
further now I like
to tend to go one
more step, George.
And that is when people say,
are we alone in the universe,
and I say now the question
you should be asking,
are we alone here on Earth,
let's bring it down now,
because we don't have to go
out there to look for them.
They're here.
>>NOORY: And they've been here.
>>MARTIN: They've been here,
our waters, all of those things.
>>NOORY: What do you think of
the theory of the late Zecharia
Sitchin that the
Anunnaki came down here,
seeded whatever creatures
might have been on the planet
at that time, and here we are.
Possible?
>>MARTIN: It's possible
because in his books
he talks about how
they created us.
And I think he was saying one
of the gods at that time said,
well, hey.
Let's create this
slave race or whatever.
And the answer was, what
you seek is already here.
And so let's go--
and at that time
we weren't able to
procreate was what
he was saying in the story.
And so now you look
at the fact that--
you look at that
Anunnaki stories.
You look at all of those, the
Noah, the Ark, and the stories.
And then of course,
you coordinate
that with what the Bible says.
And so you find
some truth in this,
and then you find some
truth in those stories,
and you begin to--
let's bring this together
because the possibilities are
high that there was
some ancient gods.
There were ancient
civilizations.
>>NOORY: It's exciting.
>>MARTIN: It's very exciting.
>>NOORY: I can understand
why you're so into this.
It gets in your
blood, doesn't it?
>>MARTIN: It's a
rabbit hole that we
can't get to the bottom.
And so much life has so
much ceilings, right?
But in this case,
we have no ceilings.
There's no-- it's
like, what are we
going to know tomorrow is
what really drives you,
because what we know today
we just learned yesterday.
And that was exciting
enough, but what
are we going to know tomorrow?
>>NOORY: If Congress asked you
to come testify, would you go?
>>MARTIN: In a heartbeat.
In fact, I'll sleep there.
Yeah, I'll do that Apple
thing and put a tent
and be out in front
and everything.
>>NOORY: Who is
Robert Jones' friend?
>>MARTIN: Robert Jones' friend
I think is a phenomenal story.
He is one of the
original Tuskegee airmen.
Not the experiment,
but one of the pilots.
He was in that group
with Tuskegee--
>>NOORY: Heroes.
War heroes.
>>MARTIN: War heroes.
And now of course,
he was at a time
that African American
pilots was not seen to be--
>>NOORY: Or accepted.
>>MARTIN: --or accepted in the
status quo of the Air Force,
or what became the Air Force.
>>NOORY: What times
that we have, huh?
>>MARTIN: Yes.
And-- but yet one of the highly
respected fighter groups, OK?
But then you're still
talking about what
they went through as the
segregation side of life, OK?
But then over the years I
started making some more
discovery as I read his story.
And it wasn't even UFO-related
until I got to a point
where he was over
Project Blue Book.
And I was like,
are you kidding me?
You know, from 1958 to 1963.
But I still thought
about this, George.
I kept thinking, hmm.
Now we're talking about a
time that this phenomenon
was still known--
you're talking about
what Stan Friedman said.
This is where
ufology comes from.
So the military would
say, hey, that person's
a ufologist, meaning that's
their code word for the joke,
right?
So let's think
about this person.
Let's think about
the phenomenon.
And I'm just going out
on a limb here, OK?
And why would they do this?
Well, at the time you're
talking UFOs were a joke.
Nobody's going to hang
their career upon it.
But they needed to really
have a deeper dive.
And they already had
Blue Book, you know?
But then if we're going
to ruin somebody's career,
let's pick him, you know?
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>MARTIN: Why not?
And so he's African American.
But if you go through
the stories of history,
we don't hear that.
And that's what really
drove me into this idea.
I even took the time
and pitched an idea
to one of the
producing companies,
and so a network is
going to pick it up.
We're going to do something
called a minority report,
and it's going to be me
going all over-- back
over to Zimbabwe,
different places.
Some celebrities,
different people
in the African
American community
getting that perspective
based on religion,
all of those things
and how we perceive it.
But also dig up some
history of stories
that have never been
told but was right there
in the timeline.
But because of what was
happening in history,
they were never
going to be told.
>>NOORY: You're a
great investigator.
I can tell already.
>>MARTIN: I'm just--
I'm an enthusiast.
I'm just--
>>NOORY: You love this.
>>MARTIN: Yeah, I mean,
investigation is just
the title, but it's
the blood-- it's the--
we just want the answers.
I call them the
big secret keepers.
I just want them to
tell us the truth,
like he said in the clip.
We've got to get curious.
It's curiosity.
That's all it is.
>>NOORY: I think we're
getting close to disclosure.
>>MARTIN: Yes.
>>NOORY: I don't
think I ever would
have said that 10 years ago,
but I think we're getting close.
Do you agree?
>>MARTIN: I think-- no.
I don't agree that we're
going to get to the answers.
I think we're getting closer
to a new narrative, George,
and it's disguised
under disclosure.
Our military don't do
nothing without a plan.
We cannot believe--
>>NOORY: They're not stupid.
>>MARTIN: They're not stupid.
They're not just-- loose
lips sink ships, right?
They're not letting some of
this stuff out unintentionally.
Something is happening.
That's why we've
got to get curious.
And don't take the narrative of
disclosure that we're getting
and still get
curious and ask why,
because there's always a plan.
They don't do anything.
We have to know that.
They don't do anything
without a plan.
>>NOORY: You know Richard
Dolan, great UFO--
>>MARTIN: Oh my god, yeah.
>>NOORY: He was on the
Gaia's "Open Minds" show
with Regina Meredith
talking about his thoughts
about disclosure.
>>MARTIN: OK.
>>MEREDITH: How many
cases have to come out?
It's been 50 years.
Well, if you go back as
far as Roswell, 60 years,
but more that these
cases have been coming.
At what point does the
government, the military,
some official agencies
say, OK, right.
It's real.
I mean, this is
becoming absurd now.
>>RICHARD DOLAN:
I agree with you.
>>MEREDITH: A couple thousand
people in the desert,
they all know it.
>>DOLAN: We're at a point
where the emperor is wearing
no clothes and someone's
going to make the point
and say, look, he's not
wearing anything at all.
We're just about
there, it seems to me.
In other words, we've
had 20 years of internet
and really 10 years
of a true internet
where we have all of this.
We have a web.
We have Gaiam TV.
We have YouTube.
We have Skype.
We have all-- Facebook.
All of these ways
that we communicate,
all in the last decade, really.
So it's all new.
And I think what we
can see is that this
has had a dramatic, profound
effect on our civilization.
But what we have
is the old paradigm
is hanging on by
their fingernails.
And that old paradigm is one
of denial, of the obvious--
I was going to say
the truth, but really,
denial of the obvious
I think is more apt.
But they're still hanging--
you know the expression.
There's nothing so powerful as
an idea whose time has come.
But there's another
part of that,
which is the second most
powerful thing is an idea that
refuses to go away.
And that's where they're at.
So they're hanging on.
That paradigm is
still there, but I
think what we're seeing
is a real battle here
between the old and the new.
>>MEREDITH: I totally agree.
And it seems to me
that events like this
are mini UFO congresses
of different kinds
around the world.
It seems like events like this
will ultimately themselves
disappear.
Once there's disclosure
and it's out there,
then the gathering will
happen in a different way.
We're going to up the
subject matter to something
maybe more to do
with consciousness
than this event occurred,
this event occurred,
and this event occurred.
>>DOLAN: Maybe.
I think-- yes, I think
that'll be part of it.
I suspect there'll be a lot
of political repercussions
of this.
I think there'll be a lot of
energy repercussions of this.
We're talking the world
AD, After Disclosure.
I wrote a book on it.
I spent a lot of-- right.
And I think--
>>MEREDITH: Go for some
of that again for anyone
who didn't see our
last interview.
>>DOLAN: Well, a number of
years ago I co-authored a book
with a fellow named Bryce
Zabel, and we called it "AD:
After Disclosure."
And it's really our attempt
to look into the future
as a think tank would.
In a world in which UFO secrecy
ended, A, how might it end?
And we try to puzzle that one
through in different ways.
But then really more
significantly, B, what then?
What is the world likely to
be like after the disclosure
of a UFO ET reality?
>>NOORY: He is so
enthusiastic, Rod.
>>MARTIN: Oh, man.
He's one of the best, and I have
all his books and everything.
And as you-- he alluded
there is what I was saying.
They know they're losing
the control of this,
so they're going to
have to have a plan on,
how do we stay on top
of this narrative?
And that's why I said that
even though they're disclosing
information to us, there's some
type of disclosure happening,
I truly believe there's still a
strategic plan on where they're
going to take it
to the next level,
because you're talking
about the new space economy.
You're talking about if
there is a space economy
and we are as a civilization
moving to space to work daily,
what's the possibility
of you looking out
the window on your way
to work and you see
some type of extraterrestrial?
So the plan is there.
I think that disclosure is--
we just had a new
pair-- that's what
I said earlier where you've got
younger people who were kids
then now are going
to be in Congress
with a whole new attitude.
And so that's
where the conflict.
But then the military still
thinks they run the show
and they don't really have
to abide by any rules anyway.
>>NOORY: You're a
UFO investigator.
You're a YouTuber.
You've got a podcast going.
What's next for you, Rod?
>>MARTIN: Dream is to
someday, just one moment,
get the phone call that
says, you know what?
George needs you to
stand in for his show.
[LAUGHTER]
On "Coast to Coast."
>>NOORY: You never know.
>>MARTIN: You never know.
It's "Beyond Belief," right?
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: It is beyond belief.
Thank you for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>MARTIN: No, it was an honor.
And believe me, I wouldn't
trade this moment.
It's just one of the
greatest moments of my life.
>>NOORY: It's fantastic
having a UFO investigator
like this who is so
enthusiastic about getting
us the truth about the
extraterrestrial presence.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]